>> I WANT TO APOLOGIZE TO YOU
THAT THE WEB SITE HAS NOT WORKED
AS WELL AS IT SHOULD.
>> Ifill: UNDER GRILLING BY A
HOUSE COMMITTEE, A TOP
GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL CONCEDES THE
PROBLEMS PLAGUING healthcare.gov
HAVE CRIPPLED ITS LAUNCH.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, TOP
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS BEFORE A
SEPARATE HOUSE PANEL FACED A
BARRAGE OF QUESTIONS ABOUT
N.S.A. SURVEILLANCE OF U.S.
ALLIES.
>> Ifill: AND ONE YEAR AFTER
SUPERSTORM SANDY, WHAT AMERICAN
CITIES CAN LEARN FROM THE
NETHERLANDS, AS THEY PREPARE FOR
THE NEXT BIG STORM.
>> TEST TEST TEST FOR NEWSHOUR.
TESTING TESTING.
>> YOU ARE QUITE SURPRISED TO
SEE A CITY LIKE NEW YORK, SO
MANY PEOPLE EXPOSE AND NO LEVEES
AND NO PROTECTION AT ALL, THAT
WAS ASTONISHING TO ME.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
TOOK FRESH AIM AT THE NEW HEALTH
CARE LAW TODAY.
THE HOUSE WAYS AND MEANS
COMMITTEE CALLED IN THE HEAD OF
THE CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID SERVICES, WHO ACCEPTED
RESPONSIBILITY FOR SOME OF THE
PROBLEMS WITH THE HEALTH CARE
WEB SITE.
NEWSHOUR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> TO THE MILLIONS OF AMERICANS
WHO HAVE ATTEMPTED TO USE LET
THOT SHOP SAND ENROLL IN HEALTH
CARE COVERAGE, I WANT TO
APOLOGIZE TO YOU THAT THE WEB
SIPT HAS NOT WORKED AS WELL AS
IT SHOULD.
>> Reporter: AT THE OUTSET,
HEALTH PROGRAM ADMINISTRATEOR
MARILYN TAVIER ACKNOWLEDGED THE
PROBLEMS WITH THE WEB SITE THAT
LAUNCHED OCTOBER 1.
BUT SHE RAN INTO SKEPTICS OVER
THE ADMINISTRATION'S NEW
TIMELINE TO FIX THE COMPUTER
ACCESS ROADBLOCKS BY THE END OF
NOVEMBER.
>> YOU'VE HAD NEARLY FOUR YEARS
TO GET IT READY, NOW YOU'RE
SAYING IN FOUR WEEKS MORE IT
WILL BE GREAT.
SO WHAT'S DIFFERENT?
WHY SHOULD ANYONE BELIEVE THESE
CLAIMS?
>> BECAUSE I THINK WE HAVE
IDENTIFIED TWO MAJOR PROBLEMS:
ONE HAD TO DO WITH THE INITIAL
VOLUME AND DESPITE OUR BEST
VOLUME PROJECTIONS, WE
UNDERESTIMATED THE VOLUME, THE
INTEREST IN THE SITE.
THE SECOND THING IS WE HAVE
FOUND SOME WHAT I WILL CALL
FUNCTIONAL OR GLITCHES AS WE
CALL THEM THE PUBLIC TERM FOR
THE ACTUAL APPLICATION ITSELF
WHICH WE'RE REPAIRING.
>> Reporter: OUTSIDE CONTRACTORS
HAVE SAID TAVENNER'S AGENCY
CURTAILED TESTING OF A SITE
MEANT TO ENROLL MILLIONS OF
UNINSURED AMERICANS IN 36
STATES.
>> DO YOU HAVE AN IDEA OF HOW
MANY APPLICANTS BECAME
ENROLLEES.
>> Reporter: TODAY TAVENNER SAID
700,000 HAVE APPLIED, SHE
DECLINED TO SAY HOW MANY
ENROLLED.
>> WE WON'T HAVE THAT UNTIL
MID-NOVEMBER.
WE HAVE PEOPLE SHOPPING NOW.
WE EXPECT THE INITIAL NUMBER TO
BE SMALL AND I THINK YOU'VE SEEN
THIS IN HOUR PROJECTIONS.
>> Reporter: COMMITTEE
REPUBLICANS ALSO CHALLENGED
TAVENNER ON OTHER ASPECTS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BEYOND THE
TECHNICAL PROBLEMS OF THE
healthcare.gov WEB SITE.
AMONG THEM: WHETHER PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAS BROKEN HIS PROMISE
THAT AMERICANS WOULD BE ABLE TO
KEEP THEIR EXISTING HEALTH PLANS
IF THEY WANTED THEM.
WAYS AND MEANS COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN DAVE CAMP BORE IN ON
THAT POINT.
>> THIS MAN WROTE HE AND SAID
"MY WIFE HAS BEEN RECENTLY
INFORMED BY HER INSURANCE
CARRIER THAT HER HEALTH CARE
POLICY DOES NOT COMPLY WITH THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
NOW WE MUST PURCHASE A NEW
POLICY TO GET THE SAME COVERAGE
AT AN 18% INCREASE IN OUR
PREMIUM.
SO WHAT HAPPENED TO THE "IF YOU
LIKE YOUR INSURANCE YOU CAN KEEP
IT" QUESTION?
>> NOW IF, IN FACT, THE ISSUER
HAS DECIDED TO CHANGE THE PLAN,
DIDN'T HAVE TO, BUT PLANS WERE
GRANDFATHERED IN IN 2010 AND IF
THEY OFFER NEW PLANS THEY HAVE
TO COME IN TO THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
SO WHAT I WOULDEL THAT
INDIVIDUAL IS IF THEIR CARRIER
IS TELLING THEM THEY'RE CHANGING
THE PLAN AND THEY'RE OFFERING AN
INCREASE, THAT THEY WOULD NEED
TO GO TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT'S
AVAILABLE IN THEIR STATE AND IN
THEIR MARKET WHICH IS CERTAINLY
SOMETHING THAT'S AVAILABLE TO
THEM THROUGH THE EXCHANGE.
>> Reporter: DEMOCRATS HAVE
JOINED IN CRITICIZING THE HEALTH
PLAN CANCELLATIONS AND ONLINE
MALFUNCTIONS.
BUT THEY ALSO VOICED FRUSTRATION
WITH REPUBLICANS TODAY AS IN
THIS EXCHANGE.
>> LET'S NOT WATER WINE HERE.
LET'S SAY IT LIKE IT IS: YOU
REFUSE TO EXPAND MANY OF THESE
GOVERNORS' MEDICAID, THEY REFUSE
TO SET UP STATE MARKETPLACES TO
-- LEAVING MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN OUTREACH ON THE TABLE IN
EDUCATION FUNDING, WHAT ARE YOU
GONNA DO ABOUT THE APPROXIMATELY
17 MILLION CHILDREN WPL
PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS WHO CAN
NO LONGER BE DENIED HEALTH
INSURANCE COVERAGE?
>> IT'S A FALSE CHOICE TO SAY
IT'S OBAMACARE OR NOTHING.
THERE ARE NUMEROUS PROPOSALS,
INCLUDING THE ONE I'M A
CO-SPONSOR OF.
>> ARE YOU SERIOUS, WHAT YOU
JUST SAID?
ARE YOU REALLY SERIOUS?
>> WE'VE GONE THROUGH 44 VOTES--
48 VOTES NOW-- OF YOU TRYING TO
DISMANTLE THIS LEGISLATION.
YOU CALL THAT COOPERATION?
I DON'T!
>> Reporter: NEXT UP, TAVENNER'S
BOSS HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
SECRETARY KATHLEEN SEBELIUS.
SHE APPEARS TOMORROW BEFORE THE
HOUSE ENERGY AND COMMERCE
COMMITTEE.
ROUGH
>> Woodruff: WE'LL TALK ABOUT
THE GROWING COMPLAINTS THAT
EXISTING INSURANCE POLICIES ARE
BEING CANCELED, RIGHT AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH PARTIES
CALLED TODAY FOR BARRING THE
SWEEPING SURVEILLANCE OF PHONE
CALLS AND E-MAILS.
BUT THE CHAIR OF THE HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE WARNED IT
WOULD HURT THE HUNT FOR
TERRORISTS.
MEANWHILE, WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS
SAID PRESIDENT OBAMA IS
CONSIDERING ENDING EAVESDROPPING
ON ALLIED LEADERS.
MORE ON ALL OF THIS, LATER IN
THE PROGRAM.
HARD-HIT AREAS OF NEW YORK AND
NEW JERSEY MARKED ONE YEAR
TODAY, SINCE HURRICANE SANDY
WREAKED HAVOC ALONG THE
NORTHEASTERN U.S. COASTLINE.
THE STORM WAS BLAMED FOR 181
DEATHS D $6AN5 BILLION IN DAMAGE
ACROSS MORE THAN A DOZEN STATES.
SEASIDE HEIGHTS, NEW JERSEY, IS
ONE OF THE BEACH TOWNS THAT
REMAINS HEAVILY DAMAGED.
AND MANY WHO ARE REBUILDING SAY
THEY'RE CONCERNED ABOUT GETTING
AFFORDABLE FLOOD INSURANCE.
>> FEMA SAID THE GOVERNMENT WITH
ALL THESE ASSOCIATIONS THAT SAY
THEY WANT TO HELP YOU BUT IN THE
END YOU DON'T QUALIFY FOR
ANYTHING.
>> WE DON'T EVEN KNOW TO BE
HONEST WHETHER WE'LL BE ABLE TO
AFFORD TO KEEP OUR HOUSE ONCE
WE'RE IN IT.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON, A
BIPARTISAN GROUP OF LAWMAKERS
INTRODUCED A BILL TODAY TO DELAY
CHANGES TO THE FEDERAL FLOOD
INSURANCE PROGRAM THAT WOULD
MAKE IT MORE EXPENSIVE.
THE WINTER OLYMPICS IN RUSSIA
BEGIN IN 100 DAYS, AND NOW
THERE'S WORD THAT ILLEGAL
DUMPING COULD TAINT THE WATER
SUPPLY FOR THE GAMES.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
TODAY THAT CONTRACTORS ARE
BURYING CONSTRUCTION WASTE AT AN
ILLEGAL LANDFILL OUTSIDE SOCHI.
THE SITE LIES IN A WATER
PROTECTION ZONE.
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT PROMISED
A "ZERO WASTE" EFFORT AS PART OF
ITS WINNING OLYMPIC BID.
POLICE IN CHINA SAID TODAY THAT
A CAR CRASH IN BEIJING'S
FORBIDDEN CITY WAS LIKELY A
DELIBERATE ACT.
THEY SAID THE PEOPLE IN THE CAR
APPARENTLY SET THEMSELVES ON
FIRE.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
JOHN SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
>> Reporter: NORMALITY RETURNED
TO TIANANMEN SQUARE TODAY.
THE CLOUDS CAME BACK AND THE
POLICE DID THEIR CHECKS AND IT
ALL SEEMED CALM ORDERLY.
AS FOR YESTERDAY'S EVENTS, THERE
WASN'T ANYTHING TO SEE.
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO DENY WHAT
HAPPENED, HOWEVER.
A 4 X 4 BURST INTO FLAMES AFTER
IT WAS DRIVEN AT SPEEDS THROUGH
A PEDESTRIAN THOROUGHFARE PACKED
WITH TOURISTS.
FIVE PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND 38
INJURED.
STATE MEDIA ACKNOWLEDGED THE
INCIDENT LATE LAST NIGHT BUT THE
PRESENTER HAD FEW DETAILS TO
OFFER.
POLICE SOURCES HAVE REPORTEDLY
DESCRIBED THE INCIDENT AS A
SUICIDE ATTACK AND THEY'VE BEGUN
CIRCULATING THIS LEAFLET TO
LOCAL HOTELS ASKING FOR
INFORMATION ABOUT MEN IN VEHICLE
FROM A REGION IN WESTERN CHINA.
IT'S HOME TO THE MUSLIM UIGHURS
AND MANY MEMBERS OF THIS ETHNIC
GROUP COMPLAIN OF CULTURAL AND
RELIGIOUS REPRESSION.
FRUSTRATION HAS TURNED TO
VIOLENCE, RIOTING THERE IN 2009
COST THE LIVES OF 200 AND THIS
SUMMER SAW A LARGE NUMBER OF
VIOLENT INCIDENTS.
THE POLICE STEPPED UP SECURITY
IN AND AROUND THE CAPITAL TODAY
ON THE LOOKOUT FOR FUTURE
ATTACKS.
SUCH INCIDENTS ARE RARE IN
BEIJING BUT THEY SERVE AS A
REMINDER OF INSTABILITY AND
VULNERABILITY AT THE WORLD'S
MOST POPULOUS STATE.
>> Woodruff: IN SYRIA, THE WORLD
HEALTH ORGANIZATION HAS NOW
CONFIRMED TEN CASES OF POLIO IN
THE NORTHEAST, AND IT'S WARNING
THE DISEASE COULD SPREAD ACROSS
THE REGION.
THE W.H.O. ALSO URGED THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT AND REBELS TO ALLOW
ACCESS TO SOME 500,000 CHILDREN
WHO NEED TO BE IMMUNIZED.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS STORY A
LITTLE LATER.
THE FIRST UNDERWATER RAIL LINK
BETWEEN EUROPE AND ASIA WAS
OPENED TODAY IN TURKEY.
THE EIGHT-MILE TUNNEL RUNS
BENEATH THE STRAIT OF BOSPHORUS,
CONNECTING THE EUROPEAN AND
ASIAN SIDES OF ISTANBUL.
CONSTRUCTION BEGAN IN 2004, AND
COST ALMOST $3 BILLION.
IT'S ONE OF PRIME MINISTER
TAYYIP ERDOGAN'S "MEGA
PROJECTS," DESIGNED TO MODERNIZE
TURKEY.
OTHER PROJECTS INCLUDE A MASSIVE
CANAL AND THE WORLD'S BUSIEST
AIRPORT.
THE U.S. BAILOUT OF GENERAL
MOTORS WILL END UP COSTING
TAXPAYERS JUST UNDER $10
BILLION.
THE INSPECTOR GENERAL FOR THE
BAILOUT PROGRAM REPORTED THE IT
TODAY.
THE EFFORT INITIALLY COST $50
BUT THE TREASURY HAS RECOUPED
MUCH OF THAT BY SELLING ITS
STAKE IN G.M.
WALL STREET RACKED UP NEW GAINS
ON OPTIMISM THAT THE FEDERAL
RESERVE WILL CONTINUE ITS
STIMULUS EFFORTS.
IN ANTICIPATION OF ITS
DECISIONS, THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED 111
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 15,680, AN
ALL-TIME HIGH.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 12 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3952.
THE S&P FINISHED AT A RECORD
CLOSE NEAR 1772.
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR, WHY
THOUSANDS OF INSURANCE PLANS
HAVE BEEN CANCELED AS A RESULT
OF THE HEALTH REFORM LAW; TOP
INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS DEFEND
THE SCOPE OF U.S. SPYING; WHAT
THE DUTCH CAN TEACH US ABOUT
PREPANG FRIOR EXTREME WEATHER;
POLIO ADDS TO THE HUMANITARIAN
CRISIS IN SYRIA; AND POET BILLY
COLLINS ON HIS LATEST BOOK.
>> Ifill: HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF AMERICANS HAVE BEEN SURPRISED
IN RECENT WEEKS WITH
CANCELLATION NOTICES FROM THEIR
HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANIES.
MANY OF THEM ARE UNHAPPY AT
BEING FORCED BACK INTO THE
HEALTH CARE MARKETPLACE EVEN AS
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT STRUGGLES
TO GET THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
UP AND RUNNING.
WHY THE CHANGE?
AND DOES IT CONSTITUTE A BROKEN
PRESIDENTIAL PROMISE?
FOR THAT, WE TURN TO JONATHAN
GRUBER, A HEALTH ECONOMIST AT
M.I.T. WHO'S CONSIDERED ONE OF
THE MANY ARCHITECTS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
AND ROBERT LAZEWSKI, A
CONSULTANT TO THE HEALTH
INSURANCE INDUSTRY.
WELCOME TO YOU, GENTLEMEN.
OKAY, I HAVE TO START WITH YOU,
JONATHAN GRUBER, SINCE YOU ARE
ONE OF THE ARCHITECTS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
DID THE PRESIDENT MAKE A PROMISE
HE COULDN'T KEEP?
>> YOU KNOW, I DON'T WANT TO GET
INTO THE PRESIDENT'S WORD CHOICE
BUT THE PRESIDENT SAID IS PEOPLE
CAN KEEP THE INSURANCE THEY LIKE
HE PROBABLY SHOULD HAVE SAID
PEOPLE CAN KEEP THE QUALITY
INSURANCE THAT THEY LIKE.
THERE'S A LOT OF INSURANCE
THROUGHOUT THAT ISN'T QUALITY
INSURANCE THAT ARE HAS VARIOUS
LIMITATIONS WITH IT.
BUT THE KEY THING TO REMEMBER IS
THAT THIS IS NOT AN ISSUE FOR
THE VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICANS.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF AMERICANS
HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE FROM THEIR
EMPLOYER OR GOVERNMENT AND
THAT'S NOT TOUCHED.
THIS IS AN ISSUE FOR THE
SUBSTANTIAL MINORITY, MAYBE 5%
OR 6% OF AMERICANS, THAT BUY
INSURANCE ON THEIR OWN.
ABOUT HALF OF THAT POPULATION
WILL PROBABLY HAVE TO BUY UP
BECAUSE OF THIS LAW.
THEIR POLICIES ARE GETTING
CHANGED.
OTHERS THEIR POLICIES ARE
GETTING CANCELED BUT THEY CAN
BUY THINGS THAT ARE
SUBSTANTIVELY SIMILAR. Ifill: RT
ABOUT THAT?
WAS THIS AT THE VERY LEAST AN
OVERSIMPLIFICATION?
>> WELL, YOU'RE LOOKING AT ONE
OF THE PEOPLE WHO THE PROMISE
WASN'T KEPT FOR.
I HAVE AN INDIVIDUAL HEALTH
INSURANCE POLICY.
I RECEIVED MY CANCELLATION
LETTER A FEW WEEKS AGO.
IT WASN'T A JUNK POLICY.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS I HEAR
THAT OBAMA ADMINISTRATION SAY
WE'VE GOT ALL THESE SUBSTAN
START POLICIES.
THAT JUST ISN'T THE CASE.
I HAD A GOLD-PLATED HEALTH
INSURANCE PLAN.
I COULD GO TO ANY DOCTOR OR
HOSPITAL IN THE UNITED STATES
VIRTUALLY.
I COULD GO TO MAYO CLINIC, THE
CLEVELAND CLINIC.
I'VE BEEN IN THE HEALTH
INSURANCE BUSINESS FOR 40 YEARS.
I HAD A CADILLAC PLAN.
MY HEALTH INSURANCE COMPANY SENT
ME A CANCELLATION NOTICE, TOLD
ME I COULD GO LOOK AT OTHER
PLANS FOR JANUARY.
THE BEST PLAN I CAN FIND
PERSONALLY IS ANOTHER BLUE CROSS
PLAN, I'M HAPPY TO STAY IN THAT
NETWORK.
BUT IT'S GOT A MUCH NARROWER
NETWORK, HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF PROVIDERS LESS, THE DEDUCTBLE
IS $500 HIGHER AND THE RATE
INCREASE IS 56% MORE.
I SPOKE A GOOD FRIEND IN FRESNO
WHO TOLD ME HIS GRAND DAUGHTER
IS GETTING A 43% INCREASE AND
SHE'S GOT A TERRIFIC PLAN.
>> Ifill: LET'S DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN --
>> THIS IS A SMALL PERCENTAGE OF
PEOPLE, THAT JUST ISN'T THE
CASE.
>> Ifill: LET'S DISTINGUISH
BETWEEN ANECDOTES AND THE LARGER
QUESTION, MR. LAZEWSKI, WHICH IS
HOW MUCH OF THIS IS -- WHEN
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT PEOPLE LIKE
YOU IN THE INDIVIDUAL MARKET AS
OPPOSED TO PEOPLE WHO GET THEIR
INSURANCE-- MOST PEOPLE-- FROM
THEIR EMPLOYERS OR MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID?
>> ACCORDING TO THE ASSOCIATION
OF HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS, THERE
ARE 19 MILLION PEOPLE IN THE
INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE
MARKET.
THE VAST MAJORITY OF THEM ARE
NOT GOING TO BE SO-CALLED
GRANDFATHERED AND KEEP THEIR
PLANS.
IF YOU BOUGHT YOUR PLAN SINCE
MARCH OF 2010 IT IS NOT
GRANDFATHERED.
YOU'RE NOT GONNA BE ABLE TO KEEP
IT.
IF YOU HAVE A PLAN IN FORCE
BETWEEN MARCH OF 2010, THE ONLY
WAY YOU CAN KEEP IT IS IF YOU
MADE ALMOST NO CHANGE TO IT.
PHENOMENON THE INDIVIDUAL HEALTH
INSURANCE MARKET, IT'S VERY
COMMON FOR PEOPLE TO INCREASE
THEIR DEDUCTIBLES IN ORDER TO
AVOID RATE INCREASES.
MY ESTIMATE IS SOMETHING LIKE
80% OF THE PEOPLE IN THE
INDIVIDUAL HEALTH INSURANCE
MARKET BETWEEN NOW AND DECEMBER
2014 WON'T BE ABLE TO KEEP THE
PLAN THEY'RE IN.
>> Ifill: YOU PUT A LOT OUT
THERE.
LET ME GIVE MR. GRUB ERR CHANCE
TO RESPOND TO T.
>> SURE, AND THIS IS A MATTER OF
DEGREES.
I AGREE WITH MR. LAZEWSKI THAT
SOME PEOPLE WON'T KEEP THEIR
PLAN.
LET ME POINT OUT A COUPLE FACTS.
THE 19 MILLION NUMBER IS WRONG.
THAT'S WITH PEOPLE FOR A
SUPPLEMENT TO THE GROUP
INSURANCE, NOT THEIR PRIMARY
INSURANCE.
THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS FROM
INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE TO PRIMARY
INSURANCE 12 MILLION.
BIG NUMBER BUT SMALLER.
REMEMBER, GWEN, LESS THAN 10% OF
THE SHARE OF PEOPLE THAT GET
INSURANCE FROM THEIR EMPLOYER.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
SUBSTANTIAL MINORITY OF THE
POPULATION.
>> Ifill: AND YET --
>> THE PRESIDENT MADE A PROMISE
AND 12 MILLION PEOPLE ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO --
>> Ifill: MR. LAZEWSKI, LET ME
FINISH THIS UP.
IN PITTSBURGH THEY SENT OUT
CANCELLATION NOTICES TO 20%,
MR. GRUBER.
IN FLORIDA, FLORIDA BLUE CROSS
SENT THEM OUT TO 80% OF THEIR
MEMBERS.
IN PHILADELPHIA TO 45%.
THAT MAY SEEM SMALL BUT IT
SOUNDS LIKE BIG CHUNKS OF THE
INDIVIDUAL MARKET ARE BEING
CARVED UP HERE.
>> ABSOLUTELY, GWEN.
THE FIRST THING I WANT TO POINT
OUT IS IT F.I.S. INDIVIDUAL
MARKET.
SECOND POINT, THIS IS A MARKET
WITH HUGE TURNOVER ANYWAY.
ONLY 17% OF THIS MARKET STAY IN
THIS MARKET FOR MORE THAN TWO
YEARS.
THIS MARKET TURNS OVER A LOT
ANYWAY.
THIRD, THAT'S RIGHT, THERE ARE
SOME PEOPLE -- THE PRESIDENT
DEFINITELY GENERALALIZED.
SOME PEOPLE WON'T BE ABLE TO
KEEP THEIR POLICIES BUT MOST
PEOPLE LOSING POLICIES -- NOT
MOST PEOPLE, ABOUT HALF THE
PEOPLE LOSING POLICIES WILL BE
ABLE TO BUY INSURANCE COMPARABLE
TO WHAT THEY HAD.
ABOUT HALF WON'T.
>> Ifill: BUT WHAT HAPPENS IF
YOU LOSE YOUR -- YOU GET YOUR
CANCELLATION NOTICE TODAY AND
YOU WANT TO GO ONLINE TO GET THE
NEW INSURANCE BUT YOU CAN'T
BECAUSE OF THE PROBLEMS ARE W
THE SYSTEM, WITH THE WEB SITE,
AND YOU ARE NOT COVERED IN
JANUARY OR WHATEVER THIS KICKS
IN?
>> I COMPLETELY AGREE THAT A'S A
PROBLEM WITH THE WEB SITE NOT
WORKING BY THE END OF NOVEMBER.
IT'S NICE TO BE ABLE TO SHOP
TODAY BUT YOU NEED TO BE SIGNED
UP BY MID-DECEMBER.
>> THIS IS A HUGE ISSUE AND I
WOULD JUST --
>> MR. LAZEWSKI, GO AHEAD.
>> TO JUST HELP YOUR AUDIENCE,
ANY PEOPLE WHO HAVE GOTTEN THE
CANCELLATION LETTERS, I RENEWED
MY POLICY BY CALLING MY
INSURANCE COMPANY DIRECTLY AND
GOING AROUND THE SITE.
THE BAD NEWS IS I WASN'T ABLE TO
SHOP BECAUSE I WENT TO ONE
CARRIER AND THE OTHER THING IS
IF I NEED SUBSIDIES I CAN'T GET
A SUBSIDY FROM MY CARRIER
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T GET INTO THE
SUBSIDY SYSTEM EITHER.
THAT IS A FALLBACK TEMPORARILY.
I WOULD ENCOURAGE PEOPLE CALL
THEIR INCUMBENT CARRIER AND GET
THE BEST SITUATION THEY CAN SO
THEY DON'T HAVE A LAPSE IN
COVERAGE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S A TEMPORARY FIX
MR. LAZEWSKI.
GO AHEAD, MR. GRUBER.
>> THAT'S THE ONLY FIX THERE IS,
GWEN.
Healthcare.gov DOESN'T WORK.
>> Ifill: MR. GRUBER?
ESN'T HAVE
TO WORK YET.
I'M NOT SAYING IT'S NOT A SHAME,
IT'S A PROBLEM, I WISH IT WORKED
BUT WE'RE PANICKING OVER A
SHORT-RUN PROBLEM.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO WORK YET.
IT THESE WORK BY THE END OF
NOVEMBER OR MID-DECEMBER SO
PEOPLE CAN SIGN UP.
>> OH, MY GOODNESS --
healthcare.gov HAS BEEN THREE
YEARS IN COMING AND THEY'VE GOT
FIX IT IN FIVE WEEKS.
THEY'VE GOT TO CLEAN UP A MESS
THAT TOOK THREE YEARS AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT WE PANIC BUT
THERE'S REASON FOR GREAT CONCERN
HERE.
>> Ifill: YOU DON'T THINK
THERE'S A FIX, MR. LAZEWSKI,
WHAT DO YOU THINK MR. GRUBER?
>> I THINK NEITHER LAZEWSKI NOR
I CAN TALK ABOUT THE TASKS IN
THE NEXT COUPLE WEEKS.
THE GOVERNMENT SAID THEY'D HAVE
IT UP AND RUNNING.
IF THEY DON'T THE ISSUES
MR. LAZEWSKI ARE REAL ONES AND
THE GOVERNMENT HAS TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO HELP THOSE WHOSE POLICIES
ARE CANCELED.
LET'S NOT PANIC YET.
IF IT'S NOT READY IN FIVE WEEKS
WE NEED TO RAISE THESE ISSUES.
>> Ifill: BOB LAZEWSKI, A HEALTH
INDUSTRY CONSULTANT AND JONATHAN
GRUBER OF M.I.T., THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: THE CRITICISM OVER
U.S. SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS AT
HOME AND ABROAD CONTINUED THIS
AFTERNOON AT A HOUSE
INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE HEARING.
T THBUE DIRECTORS OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE AND THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY PUSHED BACK.
>> ONE OF THE FIRST THINGS I
LEARNED IN INTEL SCHOOL IN 1963
IS THAT THIS IS THE FUNDAMENTAL
GIVEEN IN THE INTELLIGENCE.
>> Woodruff: THAT FUNDAMENTAL
ACCORDING TO DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE JAMES
CLAPPER, IS LEARNING THE
INTENTIONS OF FOREIGN LEADERS,
EVEN IF IT MEANS SPYING ON
ALLIES.
WHAT'S MORE, HE TOLD TODAY'S
HOUSE HEARING IT'S A TWO-WAY
STREET.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE THAT THE
ALLIES HAVE CONDUCTED OR AT ANY
TIME ANY TYPE OF ESPIONAGE
ACTIVITY AGAINST THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, OUR
INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, OUR
LEADERS OR OTHERWISE?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> THERE HAVE BEEN DISCLOSURES
IN RECENT DAYS THAT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY EAVESDROPED ON
GERMAN CHANCELLOR ANGELA MERKEL.
THE N.S.A.'S DIRECTOR, ARMY
GENERAL KEITH AL SANDER THE,
DEFENDED THE GENERAL PRACTICE OF
SURVEILLANCE IN THE U.S. AND
ABROAD TO PREVENT TERRORIST
ATTACKS.
>> THERE HAS NOT BEEN A MASS
CASUALTY HERE IN THE U.S. SINCE
2001.
THAT'S NOT BY LUCK!
THEY DIDN'T STOP HATING US.
THEY DIDN'T SAY THAT THEY WERE
GOING TO JUST FORGIVE THIS.
THEY CONTINUE TO TRY.
IT IS THE GREAT MEMBERS IN THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY, OUR
MILITARY, OUR LAW ENFORCEMENT
THAT HAS STOOD UP AND SAID THIS
IS OUR JOB AND WE DO IT WITHOUT
W OUR PARTNERS AND ALLIES.
>> Reporter:.
>> Woodruff: HOUSE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN MIKE ROGERS
ALSO DEFENDED THE EFFORTS.
>> THE WAY WE GO FORSWORD TO
MAKE SURE OUR PROGRAMS ARE
PROTECTED AND BY PEOPLE WHO ARE
DOING THEIR BEST NOT BE
DEMONIZED IN THE PROCESS.
THIS IS THE TIME FOR LEADERSHIP?
A VERY DANGEROUS AND CHAOTIC
WORLD.
IT'S NOT A TIME TO APOLOGIZE.
>> Woodruff: ON THE OTHER HAND,
DEMOCRAT JAN SCHAKOWSKY OF
ILLINOIS UNDERSCORED CONCERNS BY
SOME THAT THE SURVEILLANCE HAS
GONE TOO FAR.
>> WHY DID WE NOT KNOW THAT
HEADS OF STATE WERE BEING THE
EAVESDROPED ON?
SPIED ON.
THE REASON WHY IT'S IMPORTANT IS
BECAUSE IT IS A POLICY ISSUE
THAT HAS VERY BROAD
IMPLICATIONS.
IT COULD PUT THE UNITED STATES
IN A DIFFICULT POSITION.
>> Woodruff: YESTERDAY DIANNE
FEINSTEIN EXPRESSED OUTRAGE OVER
SPYING ON FRIENDLY FOREIGN
LEADERS.
SHE SAYS WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS
ASSURED HER IT'S GOING TO END.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID ONLY THAT A
REVIEW IS UNDERWAY.
FOR HIS PART, THE PRESIDENT
DECLINED TO ADDRESS REPORTS THAT
HE DID NOT LEARN OF THE PRACTICE
UNTIL LAST SUMMER.
INSTEAD, HE TOLD THE FUSION NEWS
CHANNEL --
>> WELL, FIRST OF ALL, I'M NOT
CONFIRMING A BUNCH OF
ASSUMPTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN MADE
IN THE PRESS.
THERE ARE STRICT LAW ABOUT WHAT
WE DO INTERNALLY AND THAT WAS
THE INITIAL CONCERN ABOUT THE
SNOEND DISCLOSURES.
INTERNATIONALLY, THERE ARE LESS
CONSTRAINTS ON HOW OUR
INTELLIGENCE TEAMS OPERATE.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, A
BIPARTISAN GROUP OF LAWMAKERS
CALLED TODAY FOR AN END TO MOST
OF THE N.S.A.'S SURVEILLANCE
WITH PHONE RECORDS AND E-MAILS.
ONE OF THOSE LAWMAKERS CALLING
FOR LIMITS TO SPYING IS
WISCONSIN REPUBLICAN JIM
SENSENBRENNER CHAIRMAN OF THE
HOUSE CRIME AND TERRORISM
SUBCOMMITTEE.
CHAIRMAN SENSENBRENNER, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH FOR BEING WITH US.
CAN YOU EXPLAIN TO US WHAT'S THE
MAIN CHANGE YOU WANT TO MAKE IN
THE ABILITY OF THESE
SURVEILLANCE AGENCIES TO DO
THEIR WORK AND WHY HAVE YOU
CHANGED YOUR MIND ABOUT HOW MUCH
LATITUDE THEY SHOULD HAVE?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THEY'VE
GONE MUCH FURTHER THAN THE
PATRIOT ACT EVER INTENDED THEM
TO DO.
THE PATRIOT ACT WAS PASSED TO
SAY THE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
SHOULD TARGET A NON-U.S. PERSON
WHO WAS IN AN AUTHORIZED
TERRORIST INVESTIGATION AND THEN
COLLECT INTELLIGENCE ON WHO HE
WAS IN CONTACT WITH AND WHAT HE
MIGHT BE UP TO.
WHAT THE N.S.A. HAS DONE OVER
THE LAST SIX TO EIGHT YEARS IS
THEY'VE GRABBED EVERYBODY'S
PHONE RECORDS AND TRIED TO MATCH
THAT TO SEE WHO MIGHT BE
INVOLVED IN THE TERRORIST
STRIKE.
THE N.S.A. HAS NOT EVER COME UP
WITH HOW MANY THE TERRORIST
CONSPIRACYS THAT THEY'VE
ACTUALLY BEEN ABLE TO SOLVE IN
DOING THIS AND, YOU KNOW, I CAN
SAY THAT TWO TEENAGERS TALKING
ABOUT WHO THEY'RE TAKING TO THE
PROM IS NOT GOING TO LEAD TO
SOMEBODY WHO WANTS TO BLOW UP
CHICAGO.
IT GOES MUCH TOO FAR.
IT BRINGS IN PEOPLE WHO ARE
INNOCENT AND NOT INVOLVED IN ANY
TYPE OF CRIMINAL OR TERRORIST
ACTIVITY AND I THINK THE TIME
HAS COME TO STOP IT BECAUSE IT'S
AN INVASION OF PRIVACY.
>> Woodruff: I'M SURE AS YOU
KNOW THEY ARE COLLECTING WHAT
THEY CALL METADATA.
THE FACT THAT PHONE CALLS TOOK
PLACE, THE PHONE NUMBERS, THE
DURATION OF THE CALL, THE
ACCUMULATION OF E-MAILS BUT THEY
SAY THEY'RE NOT LISTENING AND
READING UNLESS THEY HAVE A
REASON TO DO SO.
>> WELL, SO WHAT?
THE FACT THAT THE CALLS TOOK
PLACE AND THEY GET TRILLIONS OF
THESE CALLS MAKES THE HAYSTACK
SO BIG THEY CAN'T FIND THE
NEEDLE IN IT.
AND EVEN THOUGH SASHG BROTHERS
IN THE U.S. LEGALLY, WHEN THE
RUSSIANS TOLD US THEY WERE BAD
GUYS THEY WEREN'T ABLE TO TRACK
DOWN WHO THEY WERE ZEROING IN ON
BEFORE THE BOSTON MARATHON
BOMBING.
LOOK THERE HAS TO BE A BALANCE
BEEN AND SECURITY THE
N.S.A. AND THEIR SUPPORTERS IN
THE CONGRESS HAVE SAID LET'S
FORGET ABOUT PRIVACY AND CIVIL
LIBERTIES, LET'S FORGET ABOUT
THE FIRST AND FORTH AMENDMENTS.
I CAN'T DO THAT BECAUSE I THINK
WHAT'S MADE AMERICA A DIFFERENT
COUNTRY IS OUR RESPECT FOR THESE
TYPES OF ISSUES AND CERTAINLY
WHAT THE N.S.A. HAS BEEN DOING
IS A LACK OF OVERSIGHT AND IT'S
DESTROYED TRUST WITH OUR ALLIES,
PARTICULARLY THOSE IN EUROPE!
>> Woodruff: CONGRESSMAN
SENSENBRENNER, I LNTD TODAY TO
THE TESTIMONY OF JAMES CLAPPER,
THE HEAD OF THE N.S.A. -- RATHER
THE HEAD OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE, ALSO KEITH
ALEXANDER.
THEY SAID THEY ARE CONCERNED
ABOUT CIVIL LIBERTIES BUT
THEY'RE SEEKING A BALANCE AND
WHAT WE HEARD KEITH ALEXANDER
SAY IS THAT THEY'VE BEEN ABLE --
HE SAID "WE HAVE NOT HAD ANOTHER
ATTACK ON THE UNITED STATES
SINCE 9/11 HE SAID?
LARGE PART DUE TO THE WORK THAT
THEY'VE BEEN ABLE TO DO AND HE
EXPRESSED A FEAR IF YOU TAKE
AWAY THESE TOOLS THEY CAN'T
GUARANTEE THEY'LL BE ABLE TO
CONTINUE TO DO THAT.
>> WELL, NOBODY CAN GUARANTEE
THE THE BAD GUYS WON'T BE ABLE
TO HAVE AN ATTACK ON THE UNITED
STATES.
BUT, LOOK, WHAT THEY OUGHTING TO
DO IS FIND OUT WHO'S INVOLVED IN
A TERRORIST OPERATION AND THEN
USE A TARGET BY GOING AFTER THAT
PERSON AND THAT PERSON'S PHONE
RECORDS 6 AND HAUL THE PEOPLE
HE'S CONSPIRING WITH.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TRILLIONS OF
RECORDS AND I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU
CAN PUT THE PIECES OF A TRILLION
PIECE PUZZLE TOGETHER IN TIME TO
STOP A TERRORIST STRIKE.
THEY SURE DIDN'T DO IT WITH THE
BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING AND THEY
HADN'T BEEN SPECIFIC ON ANY
TERRORIST STRIKE THAT THEY
STOPPED EXCEPT ONE BY USING THIS
METADATA.
>> Woodruff: ONE OF THE OTHER
POINTS THEY MADE TODAY THAT THEY
HAVE -- WE HEARD MR. CLAPPER SAY
THAT THEY HAVE BEEN -- THAT
THERE HAS BEEN SURVEILLANCE
SPYING ON FOREIGN LEADERS FOR
DECADES.
HE SAID THIS GOES BACK TO THE
VERY BEGINNING OF SURVEILLANCE
IN THE UNITED STATES, THAT THE
UNITED STATES IS DOING IT TO
OTHER COUNTRIES AND OTHER
COUNTRIES DOING IT TO THE UNITED
STATES TODAY.
>> THAT MAY VERY WELL BE TRUE
BUT IT SEEMS TO ME THAT WHEN WE
WERE DEALING WITH FRIENDS AND
ALLIES LIKE GERMAN CHANCELLOR
MERKEL, THE PRESIDENT OUGHT TO
DRAW A LINE THAT THE N.S.A.
SHOULDN'T GO BEYOND.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN
NEGLIGENT IN NOT DRAWING A LINE
OR ADMITTING HE DIDN'T EVEN KNOW
ABOUT IT UNTIL LAST SUMMER.
WELL, ALL THIS CONTROVERSY SRPL
A RESULT OF A LACK OF OVERSIGHT.
IT'S A LACK OF OVERSIGHT IN THE
WHITE HOUSE, A LACK OF OVERSIGHT
FROM THE CONGRESS AND THE FISA
COURT THAT ISSUES ORDERS THAT
SUPPOSEDLY APPROVED THESE
METHODS SAY THAT IN MANY CASES
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WHICH
PETITIONS THAT COURT WAS
INACCURATE AND MAYBE EVEN LYING
TO THEM.
THE ONLY WAY OVERSIGHT CAN BE
DONE IS IF PEOPLE TELL THE
TRUTH.
TELL THE TRUTH TO THE COURT,
TELL THE TRUTH TO THE CONGRESS
AND TELL THE TRUTH-TO-THE
PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: VERY BRIEFLY, ONE
OTHER POINT THEY MADE IS THERE
IS MORE OVERSIGHT TAKING PLACE
TODAY FOR THESE AGENCIES AND
EVERY ONE OF THESE AGENCIES AND
IN CONGRESS THAN IN ANY OTHER
NATION IN THE WORLD.
>> WELL, IT SURE ISN'T WORKING
AND WHAT YOU HEARD FROM SOME OF
THE PEOPLE ON THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEE WAS THAT THEY'RE CHEER
LERSD FOR THE N.S.A. RATHER THAN
DOING OVERSIGHT.
THEY OUGHT TO BE DOING OVERSIGHT
WHICH MEANS ASKING THE TOUGH
QUESTIONS, GETTING TO THE BOTTOM
OF THE ISSUES AND I THINK THE
MOST UPSETTING COMMENT WAS MADE
BY SENATOR FEINSTEIN YESTERDAY
WHEN SHE SAID SHE DIDN'T EVEN
KNOW ABOUT THE TAPPING OF CELL
PHONES OF PEOPLE LIKE CHANCELLOR
MERKEL SHE IS THE CHAIR OF THE
SENATE INTELLIGENCE COMMITTEE
AND IF ANYBODY OUGHT TO BE
BRIEFED ON THAT AND ASK THE
TOUGH QUESTIONS IT OUGHT TO BE
SENATOR FEINSTEIN AND SHE DIDN'T
KNOW ANYTHING ABOUT IT AT ALL.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU,
CONGRESSMAN JAMES SENSENBRENNER
OF WISCONSIN.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL DISCUSS THESE
QUESTIONS AND THE SCOPE OF U-S
SPYING WITH THE DIRECTOR OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE, JAMES
CLAPPER.
>> Ifill: NOW, TO THE SECOND
INSTALLMENT OF OUR LOOK AT WHAT
HAS AND HAS NOT CHANGED ONE YEAR
AFTER SUPERSTORM SANDY BLEW
ASHORE, TAKING 150 LIVES AND
DAMAGING 650,000 HOMES.
MANY OF THOSE AFFECTED ARE STILL
TRYING TO REBUILD AND TO ANSWER
THE QUESTION, ARE WE DOING
ENOUGH TO PROTECT OURSELVES FROM
FLOODS?
IN CONJUNCTION WITH NOVA,
NEWSHOUR SCIENCE CORRESPONDENT
MILES O'BRIEN TRAVELED TO THE
NETHERLANDS FOR ONE ANSWER.
>> Reporter: THE NETHERLANDS.
THE NAME SAYS IT ALL.
THE LOWLANDS.
BUILT ON A SWAMPY DELTA.
MUCH OF THE COUNTRY LIES BELOW
SEA LEVEL.
AMERICAN TRACEY METS IS AN
AUTHOR AND WATER MANAGEMENT
EXPERT LIVING IN AMSTERDAM.
>> YOU REALLY WONDER WHY PEOPLE
SETTLED HERE AT ALL.
THIS MUST HAVE BEEN SUCH AN
UNINHABITABLE INHOSPITABLE
PLACE.
IT'S A VERY SOGGY DELTA.
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHAT THESE
ARE FOR: WINDMILLS ARE
ESSENTIALLY PUMPS.
>> IF THE SAILS TURN, THE WHEEL
WILL TURN, THIS WILL START
SPINNING AND TURN.
>> Reporter: A GIANT ARK MEDIAN
SCREW LIFTS THE WATER OUT OF THE
FLOOD PLANE.
PETER PAUL CLAP WICK IS A MILLER
NEAR ROTTERDAM.
>> IN 1450 WHEN THEY WERE
INTRODUCED, THIS ENABLED US TO
LIVE IN AREAS WHERE BEFORE WE
COULDN'T LIVE.
>> Reporter: I THEN, OF COURSE,
THERE ARE THE DIKES OR LEVEES.
MASSIVE WALLS USUALLY MADE OF
EARTH BUILT TO HOLD BACK
FLOODWATERS.
>> SO REALLY THAT'S WHAT THE
DUTCH HAVE BEEN DOING FOR A LONG
LONG TIME IS DEFENDING THEIR
COUNTRY FROM THE WATER AND
DEFENDING ALSO IMPLIES THE
FEELING OF THE WATER AS AN
ENEMY.
>> Reporter: IN THE WINTER OF
1953, THE ENEMY GOT THE UPPER
HAND.
A VIOLENT STORM BLEW IN FROM THE
NORTH SEA.
IT WAS THEIR SANDY AND KATRINA
COMBINED.
>> IN ONE NIGHT OVER 1800 PEOPLE
LOST THEIR LIVES.
SEVERAL HUNDRED THOUSAND LOST
THEIR HOUSES.
ABOUT A MILLION ANIMALS DROWNED.
>> MY FAMILY KNOWS WHAT IT IS
WHEN YOUR HOUSE IS BLOWN AWAY BY
THE WATER.
AND AFTER THAT WE SAID WELL,
THIS MAY NEVER HAPPEN AGAIN.
AND THAT WAS THE REASON FOR
DESIGNING THE DELTA PROGRAM.
>> Reporter: THIS NMA IS AN
ENGINEER FOR THE DELTA PROGRAM,
OR DELTA WORKS, A MASSIVE FLOOD
CONTROL PROTECTION SYSTEM
AU '53
FLOOD.
NEGOTIATION A REINFORCED SYSTEM
OF DAMS AND DIKES, LOCKS AND
LEVEES, THE DUTCH ADDED WHAT
THEY HOPED WOULD BE THE ULTIMATE
WEAPONS IN WATER DEFENSE:
ENORMOUS STORM SURGE BARRIERS
ACROSS THE MOUTHS OF RIVERS AND
ESTUARIES.
PROTECTING ROTTERDAM HARBOR ARE
TWO GIANT GATES.
TOGETHER BIGGER THAN THE EMPIRE
STATE BUILDING DESIGNED TO SWING
SHUT IN THE NORTH SEA THREATENS.
AND BIGGER STILL, 50 MILES
SOUTHWEST OF ROTTERDAM, A FIVE
AND A HALF MILE LONG STORM SURGE
BARRIER WITH 62 DOORS READY TO
CLOSE AT THE PUSH OF A BUTTON.
>> WE DESIGNED ON A CHANCE OF
FLOODING OF ONCE IN 4,000 YEARS.
IF NEW YORK CITY WANTS TO STAY
DRY IN A WORLD ARE RISING SEAS,
SHOULD STRUCTURES LIKE THESE BE
A PART OF THE PLAN?
>> I THINK MORE AND MORE THE
AMERICANS BECOME AWARE OF THE
THREAT OF THE WATER AND THEY'LL
SPEND MONEYING ON PROTECTING
AGAINST THE WATER.
>> AS A DUTCHMAN, YOU ARE QUITE
SURPRISED TO SEE A LARGE CITY
LIKE NEW YORK, SO MANY PEOPLE
EXPOSED AND NO LEVEES, NO
PROTECTION AT ALL.
IT WAS ASTONISHING TO ME.
>> Reporter: AARON IS A
PROFESSOR OF RISK AND WATER
MANAGEMENT IN AMSTERDAM.
LIKE MANY OF HIS COLLEAGUES HERE
HE IS A BIG BELIEVER IN BIG
STRUCTURES TO KEEP THE WATER
OUT.
HE THINKS NEW YORKERS SHOULD
THINK ABOUT WALLING THEMSELVES
OFF FROM FUTURE MEGASTORMS.
>> DON'T RULE IT OUT BECAUSE SEA
LEVEL IS GOING TO RISE VERY
QUICKLY.
>> Reporter: BUT WITH SO MANY
INLETS TO THE SEA TO FLOW
THROUGH O BARNERIER WOULD NOT BE
ENOUGH TO PROTECT NEW YORK AND
NEW JERSEY.
THE REGION WOULD NEED TO BUILD A
RING OF STRATEGICALLY LOCATED
BARRIERS TO FEND OFF FLOODING
FROM RISING SEAS AND WORSENING
STORMS.
ONE SCHEME IMAGINES A HUGE
STRUCTURE AT THE VERRAZANO
NARROWS WHICH SEPARATES STATEN
ISLAND AND BROOKLYN.
THE CONCEPT IS A HYBRID OF TWO
DUTCH DESIGNS.
THE GIANT BARRIER WITH THE GATES
AND THE HUGE SWINGING DOORS.
ANOTHER IDEAS IS EVEN MORE
AMBITIOUS: A FIVE-MILE-LONG
STORM SURGE BARRIER THAT WOULD W
JERSEY, TO THE ROCKAWAY
PENINSULA IN NEW YORK.
ENGINEER JONATHAN GOLDSTICK
WOULD LOVE TO BUILD IT, THOUGH
HE ADMITS FORTRESS NEW YORK
WOULD COST TENS OF BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS.
>> THE COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS IS
TRICKY BUT IT'S A VERY GOOD
RETURN AND IT REALLY KEEPS THE
WATER OUT.
>> Reporter: AS SEA LEVELS
CONTINUE RISING, AT SOME POINT
IN THE FUTURE EVEN BARRIERS LIKE
THIS WON'T BE HIGH ENOUGH.
>> WHAT THE BARRIERS SHOULD DO
IS PROVIDE US WITH A RELATIVELY
SHORT-TERM OPTION FOR PROTECTION
WHILE WE IMPLEMENT A PLAN TO GET
THE CITY READY FOR FUTURE HIGHER
SEA LEVEL RISES.
IF I WERE KING OF NEW YORK I
WOULD BUILD IT
>> Reporter: I BUT THE BILLIONS
ARE SPENT ON COLOSSAL BARRIERS,
WILL NEW YORKERS BE LEFT WITH A
FALSE SENSE OF SECURITY?
>> IT LOOKS LIKE WOW!
THIS IS INCREDIBLE BENEFIT!
BUT ESSENTIALLY WE HAVE DELAYED
THE PROBLEM.
>> Reporter: CLAUS JACOB IS WITH
LA MONDOERTY EARTH OBSERVATORY.
HE WORRIES IT MIGHT DELAY THE
ACTION ON THE CRUCIAL QUESTION
OF HOW AND WHERE TO BUILD IN A
MANNER THAT IS MORE RESILIENT.
AND EVEN IN THE SHORT TERM GIANT
BARRIER CANS CAUSE HUGE
PROBLEMS.
JUST ASK THE DUTCH.
BEHIND THE PERMANENT SEA WALLS
THEY CREATED STAGNANT LAKES THAT
ARE PLAGUED BY NOXIOUS ALGAE
BLOOMS.
THE DOORS ON THE GIANT STORM
SURGE BARRIER WERE ADDED TO
ADDRESS THAT PROBLEM, BUT EVEN
WITH THE DOORS OPEN THE
PERMANENT BARRIER STRUCTURES AND
MAN MADE ISLANDS REDUCE THE EBB
AND FLOW OF TIDES BY 30%.
PRECIOUS LITTLE SEDIMENT FLOWS
IN.
AS A RESULT, THEEST SWEAR SAND
BARS, WETLANDS AND OYSTER BEDS
ARE DISAPPEARING.
TAKING WITH THEM THE NATURAL
FLOOD PROTECTION THEY USED TO
PROVIDE.
>> THIS IS ONE OF THE REASONS
THE DUTCH ARE MOVING NOW TOWARDS
A NEW APPROACH TO DEALING WITH
WATER AND TRYING TO INTERVENE
LESS.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION TO THE
ECOLOGICAL CONCERNS THERE WAS
GROWING EVIDENCE THAT AS THE
SEAS RISE AND THE STORMS
WORSENED THE FLOOD-CONTROL
SYSTEM HERE MAY NO LONGER BE UP
TO THE JOB.
HANS BREWER IS AN KOLS WITH A
PROGRAM CALLED "ROOM FOR THE
RIVER."
AT THE MOST FLOOD-PRONE
LOCATIONS IN THE COUNTRY THEY
ASK PROPERTY OWNERS TO LEAVE,
BUYING THEM OUT SOT THE DIKES
CAN BE MOVED INLAND.
SO WHEN FLOODWATERS COME THEY
WILL FLOW ON TO EMPTY LAND
WITHOUT DAMAGING HOMES OR
BUSINESSES.
>> NOW WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
GIVING BACK LAND AND THAT WAS
QUITE A STEP.
>> Reporter: IT'S NOT JUST FARM
LAND MAKING THE MOVE.
IN THIS CITY THEY ARE RESHAPING
THE LANDSCAPE TO MAKE SPACE FOR
THE RIVER WALL.
BULLDOZING A PENINSULA, LEAVING
JUST A SMALL ISLAND.
AFTER MANY CENTURIES OF
PERFORMING A SORT OF ALCHEMY--
TURNING WATER INTO LAND-- THE
DUTCH ARE FACING THE LIMITS OF
THEIR SOURCERY.
NOT EVERYONE EVERYW C
KEPT SAFE FROM THE WATER.
IS THIS THE BEGINNING OF A
TACTICAL RETREAT?
>> THE DUTCH DON'T SEE THAT AS A
RETREAT, THERM
OF ACCOMMODATION.
NOW WE'RE MOVING TOWARDS AN
APPROACH IN WHICH WATER IS SEEN
AS PERHAPS NOT A FRIEND BUT A
FRENEMY.
SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN.
>> Reporter: KEEPING THEIR FEET
DRY HAS ALWAYS BEEN A DUTCH
PRIORITY BUT THE KEY LESSON THEY
LEARNED OVER THE YEARS: SIMPLY
FENDING OFF THE WATER AS IF IT
WERE A MORTAL ENEMY IS LIKE
TILTING AT WINDMILLS.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, LEARN MORE
ABOUT HOW ECOENGINEERING IS
HELPING TO BRING BEACHES IN NEW
YORK BACK TO LIFE.
THAT'S IN OUR RUNDOWN.
>> Ifill: POLIO WAS LAST SEEN IN
SYRIA IN 1999, BUT TODAY'S
CONFIRMATION OF TEN NEW AND 12
OTHER SUSPECTED CASES IN THE
COUNTRY'S DEIR EL-ZOUR PROVINCE
MEANS THE CRIPPLING DISEASE IS
BACK.
ALL OF THE CONFIRMED VICTIMS ARE
UNDER THE AGE OF TWO.
WHAT DOES THIS NEW OUTBREAK TELL
US ABOUT THE STATE OF THE
HUMANITARIAN CHALLENGE INSIDE
SYRIA?
JOINING ME IS JOEL CHARNY OF
INTERACTION, AN ALLIANCE OF U.S.
BASED INTERNATIONAL RELEIF AND
DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATIONS.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: WHO IS MOST VULNERABLE
IN THIS?
>> THE CHILDREN ARE VULNERABLE.
THERE ARE THREE THREE MILLION
CHILDREN UNDER FIVE SYRIA.
THEY'RE THE ONES THAT WOULD BE
MOST AT RISK FROM CATASTROPHIC
POLIO EPIDEMIC.
LET'S FACE IT, AT THIS POINT
EVERYONE IN SYRIA IS VULNERABLE.
WE'RE DEALING WITH A
HUMANITARIAN CATASTROPHE OF
IMMENSE DIMENSIONS.
WE HAVEN'T REALLY MADE ANY
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS IN
OVERCOMING IT AND AT THIS POINT
I WANT TO SAY REALLY THE WHOLE
SYRIAN POPULATION IS VULNERABLE
IN ONE WAY OR ANOTHER.
>> Ifill: IS IT LACK OF
VACCINATION?
IS IT LACK OF MEDICAL STRUCTURE?
>> THE MEDICAL STRUCTURE IN
SYRIA WAS VERY SOLID PRE-WAR AND
AS HUMAN RIGHTS GROUPS HAVE
TESTIFIED AND WRITTEN ABOUT
WHAT'S HAPPENED IS A SYSTEMATIC
DESTRUCTION OF THAT MEDICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE, DELIBERATE
KILLING OF DOCTORS, TARGETING OF
MEDICAL FACILITIES AND THAT'S
COMPLETELY ERODED WHAT PRE-WAR
WOULD HAVE BEEN A VERY SOLID AND
VERY DECENT MEDICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE.
>> Ifill: IS IT FAIR TO SAYS
THAT NATURAL OUTGROWTH OF THE
GROWTH OF THE REFUGEE CAMPS?
>> IT'S -- THE POLIO ITSELF FOR
NOW IS AN INTERNAL MATTER.
I THINK WHAT IT'S AN OUTGROWTH
OF IS JUST THE HERE IS CHAOS IN
SYRIA, THE BREAKDOWN OF THE
MEDICAL INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE
MEDICAL SYSTEM.
BUT, AGAIN, JUST THE CONSEQUENCE
RELENTLESS ATTACKS ON THE
CIVILIAN POPULATION.
>> Ifill: THE NUMBER I SAW WAS 4
PEOPLE A DAY.
IS THAT STRICTLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO
THE WAR, WOULD YOU SAY IN
>> DEFINITELY.
PEOPLE ARE LEAVING AS A LAST
RESORT.
THEY'RE LEAVING OUT OF
DESPERATION.
THEY'RE LEAVING BECAUSE OF THE
VIOLENCE.
BUT ALSO BECAUSE IT'S SO
DIFFICULT TO REACH THEM WITH
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.
SO IF THEIR FAMILY IS ABSOLUTELY
IN NEED, ABSOLUTELY ON THE EDGE,
AT SOME POINT YOU DO SAY "I HAVE
NO CHOICE BUT TO MAKE UP AND
CROSS A BORDER INTO TURKEY AND
INTO LEBANON, INTO JORDAN AND
INTO IRAQ."
>> Ifill: WHEN WE THINK ABOUT
SYRIA WE HEAR A LOT ABOUT ARMED
STRUGGLE.
WE HEAR ABOUT THE SEARCH FOR
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
YOU HEAR LESS ABOUT THE
HUMANITARIAN TOLL.
IS THAT SOMETHING WHICH IS A
NATURAL OUTGROWTH OR IS ONE
CAUSING THE OTHER?
I'M TRYING TO FIGURE CHICKEN AND
EGG.
>> Reporter: THE WAR IS CAUSING
THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
BUT WHAT I'M REALLY STRUGGLING
WITH IS WHY MORE PEOPLE GLOBALLY
HAVEN'T BEEN SEIZED WITH THE
HUMANITARIAN ASPECT.
>> Ifill: WHY IS THAT, DO YOU
THINK?
>> I THINK PART OF IT IS WE'RE
STRUGGLING TO FIND SORT OF GOOD
GUYS AND BAD GUYS IN THIS
SITUATION.
WE'RE STRUGGLING TO SORT OF SEE
A HUMAN FACE TO THIS.
AND, OF COURSE, A POLIO EPIDEMIC
IS HORRIBLE BUT I'M ACTUALLY
HOPING THAT MAYBE THIS WILL BE
THE MOMENT WHERE PEOPLE
GALVANIZE.
IN OTHER WORDS, THIS CAN BE THE
HUMANITARIAN EQUIVALENT OF THE
USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
MAYBE WE CAN DRAW A LINE AT
POLIO OUTBREAK AND SAY NOW WE
MUST FIND A WAY TO RESPOND MORE
EFFECTIVELY.
>> Ifill: GALVANIZE AND DO WHAT?
PHYSICALLY GET GOODS INTO
REFUGEE CAMPS AND BREAK YOU HAVE
THE REFUGEE CAMPS?
WHAT IS THE GOAL?
>> THE REFUGEE CAMPS ARE
ACCESSIBLE.
THE ISSUE IS INSIDE SYRIA.
AND WHAT THE U.N. EMERGENCY
RELIEF COORDINATOR VALERIE AMOS
HAS CALLED FOR SR. A
HUMANITARIAN PAUSE.
CAN WE STOP THE VIOLENCE FOR A
MOMENT.
>> DESCRIBE TO ME HOW THAT WOULD
WORK.
>> YOU HAVE TO NEGOTIATE IT WITH
THE ASSAD GOVERNMENT.
YOU HAVE TO NEGOTIATE IT WITH
THE ARMED GROUPS AND YOU HAVE TO
READ -- IT WAS DONE IN
AFGHANISTAN IN THE EARLY 2000s,
IT CAN BE DONE, AT LEAST IN
CERTAIN PARTS OF SYRIA TO ALLOW
SOMETHING LIKE A VACCINATION
CAMPAIGN TO GO FORWARD.
>> Ifill: SO THE AID IS THERE,
JUST NOT GETTING THROUGH?
>> IT CANNOT GET THROUGH BECAUSE
OF THE CONFLICT BASICALLY.
>> SO ARE THERE LONG-TERM AND
SHORT-TERM CHOICES HERE AS YOU
TRY TO FIGURE OUT WHAT HAPPENS
NEXT?
>> DEFINITELY.
I MEAN THE -- SOMETHING LIKE A
POLIO EPIDEMIC IS AN ALARM, AN
EMERGENCY THAT MUST BE DEALT
WITH IMMEDIATELY.
BUT LOOK AT THE REGION.
LOOK AT THE TWO OR THREE MILLION
PEOPLE WHO HAVE CROSSED INTO
NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES.
TO REBUILD SYRIA, TO ALLOW
PEOPLE TO RECOVER.
EVEN IF THE WAR STOPPED TOMORROW
IT WOULD BE A LONG-TERM EFFORT.
>> Ifill: WHO HAS TO TAKE THE
LEAD IN THIS?
>> FUNDAMENTALLY IT'S ABOUT
DIPLOMACY AND PRESSURE ON THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT AND SOME OF
THE ARMS GROUPS TO ALLOW THIS
HUMANITARIAN ACCESS TO HAPPEN.
I'M THINKING WE NEED SOMETHING
DRAMATIC.
WE ALMOST NEED TO HAVE THE WORLD
LEADERS START A FAST OR
SOMETHING TO RAISE -- WE HAVEN'T
BEEN ABLE TO FIND A WAY TO GET
THE APPROPRIATE LEVEL OF
POLITICAL PRESSURE THAT WILL
ALLOW BASICALLY WHAT SHOULD BE
EASY, HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE,
TO GO FORWARD.
>> Ifill: JOEL CHARNY, THANK
YOU.
>> YOU'RE WEOME.LC
THANKS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A LOOK AT THE
PLAIN SPEECH AND DROLL WIT OF
ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S FOREMOST
POETS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
THE.
>> Brown: THE TROUBLE OF POETRY
IS THAT IT ENCOURAGES THE
WRITING OF MORE POETRY, MORE
GUPPYS CROWDING THE FISH TANK.
LINES FROM BILLY COLLINS, FORMER
POET LAUREATE AND ONE OF THE
NATION'S BEST KNOWN POETS.
HIS NEW COLLECTION IS TITLED
"AIMLESS LOVE: NEW AND SELECTED
POEMS "FROM HIS WORK OF THE LAST
DECADE.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH, JEFF.
>> Brown: I THOUGHT I WOULD
SFREL A BLUR NORTHBOUND THIS
BOOK.
ALICE FULTON WRITES "BILLY
COLLINS PUT THE FUN BACK IN
PROFUNDITY."
ARE YOU CONSCIOUSLY AIMING FOR
FUN?
ARE YOU CONSTANTLY AIMING FOR
PRO FUND ANY WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
>> WELL, THERE'S A LOT OF
UNCONSCIOUS ACTIVITY THAT GOES
ON IN THE COMPOSITION OF A POEM
SO I CAN'T -- I CAN'T PICTURE
MYSELF STARTING OUT AIMING TO DO
ANYTHING, HAVING MUCH OF AN
AGENDA.
I THINK IN WRITING A POEM I'M
MAKING SOME TONAL ADJUSTMENTS
AND IT TOOK ME A LONG TIME TO
ALLOW ANYTHING LIKE FUN INTO MY
POETRY.
>> Brown: IT DID?
>> WELL, I THOUGHT ORIGINALLY
WHEN I WAS IN SCHOOL AND I
WANTED TO BE A POET I KNOW POETS
SEEMED TO BE MISERABLE AND I WAS
A PRETTY HAPPY KID BUT I WAS
WILLING TO --.
>> Brown: SO YOU HAD TO FIT
YOURSELF INTO THAT MISERABLE --
>> I HAD TO FAKE IT.
I HAD TO GET INTO THIS MISERABLE
CHARACTER BEFORE I WROTE POEMS
AND IT WASN'T FOR QUITE A WHILE
I WAS ABLE TO READ POETS THAT
WERE ALLOWED -- ALLOWED ME TO BE
HUMOROUS WITHOUT BEING SILLY.
>> Brown: BUT HUMOROUS AS A --
THAT'S HARDTOR DO, TOO, RIGHT?
TO TRY TO BE HUMOROUS?
>> IT IS.
THE AUTHENTIC THING ABOUT HUMOR
IS THAT ANYONE CAN PRETEND TO BE
SERIOUS.
ANYONE WHO'S EVER HAD A JOB, IN
FACT, WE'RE PRETENDING TO BE
SERIOUS NOW, MORE OR LESS.
THE OR IF YOU SAT IN THE
CLASSROOM YOU COULD PUT ON
SERIOUSNESS.
BUT YOU CAN'T PRETEND TO BE
FUNNY.
YOU CAN FAIL TO BE FUNNY BUT YOU
CAN'T FAKE IT.
>> Reporter: BUT THE
AUTHENTICITY OF THE VOICE THAT
YOU DEVELOPED -- IS DEVELOPED
THE RIGHT WORD?
IT TOOK TIME TO GET THAT VOICE
WHICH IS A KIND OF -- BUT IT IS
A SPEAKING -- A CASUAL VOICE, I
GUESS.
>> WELL, YEAH, I THINK IT STARTS
OUT WITH A KIND OF -- A CASUAL
STRAIGHTFORWARD TONE TRYING TO
JUST GET THE READER ENGAGED IN
THE FIRST STANZA BY NOT MAKING
TOO MANY DEMANDS ON THE READER.
JUST SETTING UP A LITTLE SCENE
OR AN ENGAGEMENT OF SPEECH.
I HOPE THE POEM AS IT GOES ON
GETS MORE COMPLICATED, A LITTLE
MORE DEMANDING, A LITTLE MORE
AMBIGUOUS OR SPECULATIVE SO
WE'RE DRIFTING AWAY FROM THE
CASUAL BEGINNING OF THE POEM
INTO SOMETHING MORE SERIOUS.
>> Brown: I WANT YOU TO READ THE
FIRST OF THE NEW POEMS AS AN
EXAMPLE HERE.
IT'S CALLED THE SAND HILL CRANES
OF NEBRASKA.
>> OKAY, YOU'RE QUITE RIGHT
ABOUT THE TITLE.
"THE SAND HILL CRANES OF
NEBRASKA.
TOO BAD YOU WEREN'T HERE SIX
MONTHS AGO WAS A LAMENT I HEARD
ON MY VISIT TO NEBRASKA.
YOU COULD HAVE SEEN THE
ASTONISHING SPECTACLE OF THE
SAND HILL CRANES.
THOUSANDS OF THEM FEEDING AND
EVEN DANCING ON THE SHORES OF
THE PLAT RIVER.
THERE WAS NO POINT IN POINTING
OUT THE IMPOSSIBILITY OF MY
BEING THERE THEN BECAUSE I
HAPPENED TO BE SOMEWHERE ELSE SO
I NODDED AND PUT ON A LOOK OF
MILD DISAPPOINTMENT IF ONLY TO
BE PART OF THE ECONOMIZE RATION.
IT WAS THE SAME LOOK I REMEMBER
WEARING ABOUT SIX MONTHS AGO IN
GEORGIA WHEN I WAS TOLD THAT I
HAD JUST MISSED THE SPECTACULAR
ANNUAL OUTBURST OF AZALEAS,
BRILLIANT AGAINST THE GREEN
BACKDROP OF SPRING.
AND THE SAME IN VERMONT SIX
MONTHS BEFORE THAT WHEN I
ARRIVED SHORTLY AFTER THE
MAGNIFICENT FOLIAGE HAD
GLORIOUSLY PEAKED.
MOTHER NATURE, AS SHE IS CALLED,
HAVING TOUCHED THE HILLS WITH
HER MANY COLORED BRUSH.
A PHENOMENON THAT OCCURS-- LIKE
THE OTHERS-- AROUND THE SAME
TIME EVERY YEAR WHEN I AM
APPARENTLY OFF IN ANOTHER STATE
STUCK IN A MOTEL LOBBY WITH THE
LOCAL PAPER AND A STYROFOAM CUP
OF COFFEE BUSILY MISSING GOD
KNOWS WHAT.
>> SO THERE'S THE HUMOR OF
ALWAYS THIS IS THE WRONG PLACE
AT THE WRONG TIME BUT ALSO THE
-- IF IT IS PROFUNDITY OF
"THAT'S LIFE" RIGHT?
>> WELL, IT IS.
AND THERE WAS A WRITER WHO MADE
UP THE WORD TO AZALEATE, AND
THAT MEANS TO COMMISERATE ABOUT
LOCAL NATURAL EVENT THAT THEY
JUST MISSED.
OR THEY WILL MISS BECAUSE
THEY'RE LEAVING TOO EARLY.
>> Brown: YOU DO A LOT OF PUBLIC
READINGS AND SPEAKING, YOU'RE
ONE OF A HANDFUL OF POETS WHO WE
COULD THINK OF AS PUBLIC POETS
IN OUR CULTURE WHICH IS NOT
NOTICEABLY OPEN TO POETRY ALL
THAT MUCH, RIGHT?
WHAT'S YOUR SENSE OF IT.
>> WELL, ROBERT FROST STARTED
THIS WHOLE THING ROLLING.
HE WAS I BELIEVE THE FIRST POET
WHO STARTED GOING COLLEGES.
BEFORE THAT POETS DIDN'T GIVE
PUBLIC READINGS VERY OFTEN.
THERE WAS NO CIRCUIT OF SCHOOLS.
WELL, AT ANY
GIVEN MOMENT IN AMERICAN LIFE
THERE WERE PROBABLY 45 POETS IN
AIRPLANES VECTORING ACROSS THE
COUNTRY HEADING TOWARDS --.
>> Brown: IT'S A FUNNY IMAGE FOR
-- WHEN WE THINK NOBODY'S
READING POET BUS YOU'RE SAYING
POETS ARE CRISSCROSSING AMERICA.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF ANYONE'S
READING IT BUT POETS ARE STILL
FLYING AROUND THE COUNTRY GOING
FROM LEFT TURN TO LEFT TURN BUT
CIRCUITRY HAS BECOME VERY WELL
ESTABLISHED.
>> Brown: I NOTICED IN SOME OF
THE MORE RECENT WORK YOU'RE
WORKING MORE IN POETIC FORMS.
SONNETS, EVEN A PLAY ON HAIKU IN
ONE AREA.
IS THERE A REASON FOR THAT?
IS IT THE CHALLENGE OR JUST
WANTING THE FORM?
>> WELL, I THINK THE PLEASURE OF
FORM IS THAT YOU HAVE A
COMPANION WITH YOU BESIDES ALL
THE POETRY.
>> Brown: ARE YOU AWARE OF THE
POETS YOU'VE EVER READ?
>> THE CANDLES ARE LIT BY THE
POETS OF THE PAST.
TO WRITE POETRY IS TO BE VERY
ALONE BUT YOU ALWAYS HAVE THE
COMPANY OF YOUR INFLUENCES.
BUT YOU ALSO HAVE THE COMPANY OF
THE FORM ITSELF WHICH HAS A KIND
OF CONSCIOUSNESS.
THE SONNET WILL SIMPLY TELL YOU
THAT'S TOO MANY SYLLABLES OR
THAT'S TOO MANY LINES OR THE
WRONG PLACE SO INSTEAD OF BEING
ALONE YOU'RE IN DIALOGUE WITH
THE FORM.
>> A OPPOSED TO TELLING YOURSELF
IT MAY BE ENOUGH.
>> THAT'S RIGHT!
>> Brown: THE NEW COLLECTION IS
"IMLESS LOVE: NEW AND SELECTED
POEMS."
BILLY COLLINS, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> GREAT TO BE HERE.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE HEAD OF MEDICARE AND
MEDICAID APOLOGIZED FOR THE
PROBLEMS WITH THE GOVERNMENT'S
HEALTH CARE WEB SITE.
LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH PARTIES
CALLED FOR BARRING THE SWEEPING
SURVEILLANCE OF PHONE CALLS AND
E-MAILS.
BUT INTELLIGENCE LEADERS
DEFENDED THEIR EFFORTS, IN
TESTIMONY AT A HOUSE HEARING.
AND HARD-HIT AREAS OF NEW YORK
AND NEW JERSEY MARKED THE FIRST
ANNIVERSARY OF SANDY, THE STORM
THAT KILLED 181 PEOPLE AND DID
$65 BILLION IN DAMAGE.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, EVER WONDER
WHAT THE STORY IS BEHIND SOME OF
THE MURALS OR SCULPTURES IN YOUR
NEIGHBORHOOD?
ART LOVERS HAVE BEEN USING THE
APP ART-AROUND THAT LETS YOU
FIND, MAP, AND WRITE A
DESCRIPTION ABOUT THE PUBLIC ART
IN YOUR COMMUNITY.
WE HAVE THE STORY ON ART BEAT.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
FINALLY TONIGHT, LAWMAKERS BID
FAREWELL TO FORMER SPEAKER OF
THE HOUSE TOM FOLEY, WHO DIED
EARLIER THIS MONTH AT THE AGE OF
84.
FOLEY SERVED FOR 30 YEARS IN THE
HOUSE, INCLUDING FIVE YEARS AS
SPEAKER.
AT A MEMORIAL SERVICE IN
STATUARY HALL AT THE CAPITOL
THIS AFTERNOON, FOLEY'S ONE-TIME
COLLEAGUES, FORMER PRESIDENT
CLINTON, PRESIDENT OBAMA, AND
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER REMEMBERED
THE WASHINGTON STATE DEMOCRAT AS
A STATESMAN WITH A SENSE OF
HUMOR, AND SOMEONE WHO
FREQUENTLY CROSSED PARTY LINES.
HERE'S THE PRESIDENT.
>> A LEADER GROUNDED IN DECENCY,
IN PRINCIPLE, HE BROUGHT HONOR
TO HIMSELF, TO HIS FAMILY, AND
TO THIS HOUSE.
AND HE DID ALL THESE THINGS A
PUBLIC SERVANT SHOULD DO AND,
FRANKLY, DID MANY OF THEM BETTER
THAN THE REST.
BUT IT WAS HIS SENSE OF FAIRNESS
HIS PORT IN A STORM BEARING THAT
WILL ALWAYS STAND OUT FOR ME.
IT'S HOW HE HELD THIS
INSTITUTION TOGETHER AT A VERY
DIFFICULT TIME.
>> WHEN HE ASSUMED HIS
SPEAKERSHIP HE BROUGHT TO IT A
SCHOLAR'S DEPTH OF UNDERSTANDING
AND A DISCIPLE'S PASSION.
HE LED THE HOUSE WITH FAIRNESS
AND COMEDY, A STYLE OF
LEADERSHIP WE HAVEN'T SEEN AND
WE RECENTLY HAVE LOOKED FOR IT
BUT WE HAVE NOT SEEN WHAT TOM
WAS ABLE TO DO WITH BOTH SIDES.
>> TOM AND I WEREN'T ON THE SAME
SIDE ON MOST ISSUES.
HIS FAITH IN GOVERNMENT WAS
SHALL I SAY A LITTLE MORE ROBUST
THAN MINE.
BUT WE SHARED A DEEP RESPECT FOR
THE INSTITUTION AND A BELIEF
THAT WORKING WITH THE OTHER
SIDE-- PARTICULARLY AT A TIME OF
DIVIDED GOVERNMENT-- IS NO
HERESY WHEN IT ENABLES YOU TO
ACHIEVE SOME GOOD FOR THE NATION
THAT KIND OF COMEDY IS SOMETIMES
VIEWED AS OLD-FASHIONED AROUND
HERE.
BUT THAT'S NEVER BEEN TRUE.
>> WHEN WE'RE STANDING OUTSIDE
THESE MAGNIFICENT BUILDINGS WE
HAVE THAT SENSE OF WONDER AND
THAT SENSE OF HOPE.
AND SOMETIMES THE LONGER YOU'RE
HERE THE HARDER IT IS TO HANG ON
TO THAT.
AND YET TOM FOLEY NEVER LOST IT.
NEVER LOST THAT SENSE OF WONDER.
NEVER LOST THE SENSE OF
GRATITUDE.
WHAT A PRIVILEGE HE FELT IT WAS
TO SERVE.
AND HE NEVER FORGOT WHY HE CAME
HERE.
ON BEHALF OF THIS NATION AND HIS
STATE AND THE CITIZENS THAT HE
LOVED AND RESPECTED SO MUCH.
IF.
>> Woodruff: HE WAS TRULY A
GENTLEMAN OF THE CONGRESS.
>> Ifill: AND A CREATURE OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
HE'S MISSED BY EVERYONE.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE SIT DOWN WITH
THE SENATE'S TOP REPUBLICAN,
MITCH McCONNELL.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.